This is min12xxw, a filter to convert pbmraw data such as produced by
ghostscript to the printer language of Minolta 1[234]xx W printers.

It is based on an initial driver by Adam Bocim <beetman@seznam.cz>.
Support for the newer 13xxW and 1400W models is not tested by me because
I do not have such a printer. However, I have had reports confirming that
it also works increasingly well.

Building and installing:

This should be as simple as

	./configure
	make
	make install
	make clean

Binaries go to /usr/local/bin, manpages to /usr/local/man. This can be
changed with options to configure (see INSTALL and/or ./configure --help).


Comments:

I do not add comments about how to integrate this driver into your printing
system. I am sure there are a lot of people who can do this a lot better
than I can (this is because I use somewhat antiquated software). If you
think you can, put it onto the net or send me a copy for inclusion. I am
not going to support this actively, because I haven't got the time or
energy to do so. Maintaining the filter might prove enough work.

However, the people at www.linuxprinting.org have produced .ppd files for
this driver, so making this beast work should be quite easy for all recent
Linux distributions.

For usage instructions, see the manpage. In case of problems, please have a
look at the FAQ which should answer some of the most frequently asked
questions. License is in the file COPYING (it is GPL - stay relaxed...). If
you want to understand the format in which data is sent to the printer, see
the file format.txt and the sources.

The build process builds an additional program, esc-m, which is also installed.
Its main purpose was to ease viewing the output of the windoof driver during
developent. It is still included because it might help to find problems.
Also, if you can read the output for another printer with this tool and the
output makes at least some sense, this might mean that the printer can be
driven by this filter. I noticed support for PagePro 13xxW would be possible
using this approach.

I've had reports by people using min12xxw on at least the following machines
and under the following operating systems:

	- Linux (x86, amd64, ppc)
	- FreeBSD (x86, amd64)
	- OS X (ppc)
	- NetBSD (sparc64)
	- Solaris (sparc64)

This list is probably not complete, and the order in which the items are
mentioned does not mean that the author prefers a certain platfrom or
operating system. If you use min12xxw on a platform that is not listed
here, please drop me an e-mail so I can include the information here.


Thanks:

I'd also like to give thanks to a few other people:

Initial suggestions for reading some information from the printer came
from Bruno Schödlbauer <bruno.schoedlbauer@gmx.de>, who also pointed me
to a nice USB sniffer by Benoît Papillault for Windoof 98 and up, see
http://benoit.papillault.free.fr/usbsnoop. (This little program may prove
very helpful on similar occasions. Happy USB sniffing...)

David Hamilton <dhamilto@angel.homeip.net> has helped a lot in testing and
developing the support for the PagePro 1350W. His patience when testing
things out was enormous. He really deserves a big THANKS.

Krishnaprasad encouraged me to support the PagePro 1400W and helped testing
the new code.


Happy printing!

Manuel Schiller (mala@hinterbergen.de)
