Release notes for Discover 2.0      17 Oct 2002
-----------------------------------------------
Copyright 2002 Progeny Linux Systems, Inc.


Please see the LICENSE file for licensing information.  Further
license-related information is also contained in the manual.

This is the initial release of Discover 2.0, which replaces Discover 1
(which in turn was an extensive rewrite of Mandrake's detect software).
Discover 1 was widely used only on Debian-based systems, but Discover 2 is
targeted at a much broader audience, including non-Linux platforms.

The command-line syntax for Discover 2.0 is quite different from that of
Discover 1.  Any software that used the original Discover command-line
utility to report hardware information must be updated for Discover 2.

One of the more subtle changes between Discover 1 and Discover 2 is the
remapping of some busclasses: sound has become audio, video has become
display.  There is still a video busclass; however, it now represents
video-capturing devices rather than display devices.

The error handling in Discover is inadequate.  Without the verbose flag to
the discover executable, no errors are printed on the screen; even with the
flag, libdiscover returns only a limited amount of error data through its
status structure.

The sysdeps are currently written for Linux only.  There is a stubs section
of the sysdep directory.  This is to provide a base on which to build new
sysdeps.  Discover 2.0 was designed to be a versatile, multiple-platform
querying tool, and additional sysdeps will always be welcome.

The Linux sysdeps can be found in the linux subdirectory.  As of 2.0, the
ATA busclass sysdep is not working properly, so Discover does not support
ATA.  Linux has a rather unique way of reporting ATA device information,
but the busclass should become available in the near future.  The SCSI
and PCMCIA busclasses are currently suffering from a lack of good data.
There is a limited amount of data currently present; it was used mostly for
testing purposes.  Please feel free to contribute data for these busclasses.
