2006-05-10

This directory contains various tools that may be useful:

 hotplug/:
        Linux hotplug script and an automatically generated config file
        (libsane.usermap) used to change the permissions on the libusb "device
        nodes" in /proc/bus/usb/ when a scanner is plugged in. For newer Linux
        kernels, you may need to use udev instead.  Please read the README file
        in this directory for instructions.

 hotplug-ng/:
        Linux hotplug-ng script and an automatically generated config file
        (libsane.db) used to change the permissions on the libusb "device nodes"
        in /proc/bus/usb/ when a scanner is plugged in. For newer Linux kernels,
        you may need to use udev instead.  Please read the README file in this
        directory for instructions.

 udev/:
	Contains a automatically generated udev rules file. udev now replaces
	hotplug and provides all the functionalities of hotplug. libusb 0.1.12
	or newer is necessary.

 openbsd/:
 	Contains example scripts for hotplugd(8) for USB scanners accessed via
	libusb.

 sane-find-scanner:
        Attempts to find a SCSI scanner attached to your system.
        Invoke with "sane-find-scanner -h" to get command-line
        syntax. More details can be found in the man page
        sane-find-scanner(1).

 xerox:
        A simple script to make photocopies ("xeroxing").  In
        the script, you may need to adjust the device name
        assigned to variable DEV and the resolution assigned
        to variable RES as well as the paper with and height
        (variables WIDTH and HEIGHT, respectively.

 mustek600iin-off:
        Allows you to turn off a Mustek 600 II N scanner.
        Use "make mustek600iin-off" to compile.

 umax_pp:
	Command line utility to scan on UMAX astra 1220P,
	1600P and 2000P, without using the backend. So that
	scanner protocol can be tested directly.

 gamma4scanimage: Creates a gamma table in the format expected by scanimage.
	You can define a gamma value, shadow and highlight. 
	Take a look at manual page gamma4scanimage for further information.

 RenSaneDlls.cmd: Convert backend-DLL-filenames according to 8.3 naming
        convention necessary for DLLs on OS/2.

Maybe useful for SANE developers:

 sane-config:
        Show SANE version, linker flags etc. Might be useful for 
        frontend developers.

 sane-desc:
        Generate SANE webpages (and ASCII lists) from backend .desc files.
        Run "sane-desc --help" for details. The default lists are generated
        in doc/Makefile. 

 check-po.awk:
        Print untranslated and fuzzy messages and their line numbers in the
        source code and po file. Example:
           tools/check-po.awk po/de.po
        You may need to adjust the path of gawk in the first line of the
        script. Alternatively, run it via gawk's -f option, like so:
           gawk -f tools/check-po.awk po/de.po
        More documentation is in the script itself.

